# NLP-based-clinical-text-extraction-from-medical-transcripts-and-K-means-clustering-on-EMR based on Patient's chief complaint with Triage Severity Score

The production of healthcare data has increased significantly in recent years, with healthcare data accounting for 30% of the world's data production in 2018. Electronic medical records (EMRs) are detailed patient medical records that contain a wealth of information about demographics, medical history, lab results, and clinical notes. NLP can help extract vital information from these unstructured clinical notes, which can lead to more proactive and personalized healthcare for patients. By identifying patterns and trends in large datasets, healthcare providers can make more informed clinical decisions and provide evidence-based care.

Clinical notes are an important part of EMRs as they contain critical patient information, including triage chief complaints. However, clinical notes are unstructured and require extraction of medical information and updating to data tables for further analysis. In my research analysis I didn’t have access to clinical notes, hence I come across medical transcripts from Kaggle scraped from mtsamples.com by taking this idea I manually created 30 samples of clinical notes based on the emergency department triage assessment information and used pre-trained SciSpacy model to extract drug and disease information of ED. Once this information is extracted, it can be converted to a database in a structure format. However, clinical note sample is not large enough for clustering. I come across larger dataset of emergency department from Beth Israel Deaconess Center. Using k-means clusters found respiratory, cardiovascular, diabetics, and neurological are the common disease patient visiting ED. Finally, evaluation of k-means clustering performed using Silhouette score of 0.7 shows cluster are clearly distinguishable.

In conclusion, the use of EMRs and NLP has significant potential to revolutionize healthcare by improving the quality of care and enabling healthcare providers to make more informed clinical decisions.
